1) Facilitation is a management skills.
   A good facilitator should remain neutral and facilitate consensus when required.

2) The create WBS process identify the deliverables at the lowest level in the WBS:
                 - The Work Package.
   Project Work Package are typically decomposed into smaller components called:
                 - Activity (represents the work to complete a work package)
   But those activities would be part of the project schedule and not the WBS.

3) Contingency funds / allowance are used for items likely but not certain to occur.

4) Key Stakeholders --> Stakeholders in decision making decision


5) Probability and impact matrix are used to filter the high risk and high impact 
   from others.

6) Time and Material Contract will allow the contract to change as the scope changes.

7) The attribute sampling measure the quality of items in a sample on a pass/fail basis
   The variable sampling measure the quality on a continuous scale.

8) Finish to Start: Most common relationship in precedence diagramming method.
                    The next Activity cannot start until the previous one has started.

9) Start to Finish: Least common relationship in precedence diagramming method.
                    The next Activity cannot finish until the previous one has started.

10) The project charter is approved by the sponsor or a external project initiator.

11) A Control chart must have an upper / lower control limits to indicate when 
   the process is in or out of control.

12) Project Time Management: Rolling Wave Planning is a technique used to create 
    a more detailed work plan while keeping the right level of detail for each 
    activity.
    Also called progressive elaboration.

13) The configuration management activities in the Perform Integrated Change
    Control process are:
        - Configuration identification
        - Configuration Status Accounting
        - Configuration Verification and Auditing.

14) Kill points mark the transition from one phase to the other.

15) Commercial Database is an Enterprise Environmental Factor.

16) Configuration Management Knowledge base, Change control procedure, 
    historical information are Organizational process assets.

17) Performing Qualitative Analysis is quick and cheap.
    Performing Quantitative Analysis is long and expensive.

18) 7 basic tools of quality (Quality Management):
                - cause and effect diagram (fishbone diagram)
                - control chart
                - flow chart
                - histograms
                - pareto chart
                - check sheet
                - scatter diagrams

18) Crashing is a technique to compress the schedule without changing the scope.
    Fast tracking is another technique.

19) At the end of the project the schedule variance is ZERO: SV = EV - PV.
    At the end of the project, all planned value should be earned and the difference 
    should be ZERO.

20) A scatter diagram plots several occurrences of 2 variables (one on each axis).
    A relationship can then often be determined between the two variables.

21) The potential cause of a specific effect fail into the following categories:
    - time, machine, method, material, energy, measurement, personnel and environment.

22) Scope creep: Uncontrolled scope change.


23) The Project scope statement describes the project's deliverables and the work 
    required to create those deliverables.


24) The project scope statement lists and describes the specific project assumptions
    associated w/ project scope and the potential impact if those assumptions 
    proved to be false. More numerous and detailed assumption in the Scope Statement
    than in the project charter.


25) Statistical sampling will provide sufficient inspection to ensure a high likelihood 
    of a quality product while saving money for the project.


26) The Data Date is the date through which the project has provided actual status and 
    accomplishments. 
    It's a point in time where the status of the project is recorded.
    Also called as-of date and status date.

30) Risk diagram techniques includes: 
        - cause and effet diagrams (fishbone / Ishigawa diagram)
        - flowcharts
        - influence diagrams
        (NO RACI chart.)

31) Colocation is a tool and technique to the Develop Project Team process.

32) The Resource Breakdown Structure is a hierarchical structure of resources by 
    resource category and resource type.
    --> use in resource levelling.

33) A Pareto chart is a type of histogram where the causes are ordered by frequency.
    RISK management.

34) The grade of a product relates to the technical characteristics of the product.

35) A work around is a response to a negative unplanned risk.

36) A bottom-up estimating is a technique that can be applied only when sufficient 
    information is available.

37) Process improvement model:
    - Malcom-Baldrige
    - Organizational Project Management Maturity Model (OPM3)
    - Capability Maturity Model Integrated (CMMI)

38) A Control Account is a Management Control Point where the actual cost / schedule
    are integrated and compared to earned value for performance measurement.
    Control Account are placed at selected management point of the WBS.
    One control account may include one or many Work Package
    But each Work Package must be associated w/ only one Control Account. (p.132 Scope)


39) Control Account and Planning Package are 2 planning components used when there are 
    insufficient details of the project scope.

40) Scope Validation involves obtaining the Stakeholders' formal acceptance of project
    deliverables.

41) Cost of Quality Assurance is part of the Cost of Conformance (not non-Conformance)

42) WBS --> 100% rule - No extra work left.

43) emails are informal communication. 
    Reports, Briefing are considered formal communication.

44) Analogous Estimating is a gross value estimation technique.

45) Configuration Management Activities are documented as part of the requirements 
    management plan which is an output of the Plan Scope Management.

46) Responsibility Assignment Matrix (RAM) illustrates the connection between the
    remaining work to be done and the team members.

47) The Work Authorization System is a subsystem of the overall project management
    system.
    It is a collection of of formal documented procedures that defines how work will
    be authorized to ensure that work is done at the right time and proper sequence.

48) ETC = BAC - EV

49) acceptance criteria in the project scope statement.

50) Group decision: Dictatorship, Majority, Unanimity.



51) The upper / lower Control limits are normally set at +/- 3 sigma.


52) Contracts can be classified as:
        - Fixed price (Firm fixed price, Fixed price incentive)
        - Cost Reimbursable (Cost Plus incentive fee, Cost plus Award fee)
        - Time and Material ()


53) PDCA --> from Deming.


54) A lead allows an early start of successor activity.


55) Identify Risk Process tools and techniques:
        - Interviewing
        - Root Cauase Analysis
        - Brainstorming.

    Delta technique is not an information technique used in the identify Risk Process.


56) The project integration management is needed more where individual processes 
    interact.

57) Plan procurement Management process output:
        - Procurement Management Plan
        - Procurement statement of work
        - Make or buy decision
        - Procurement documents
        - Source selection criteria
        - Change request
        - Project document updates

58) Time & Material contracts are hybrid type of contractual agreements that could
    contain aspects of both cost-reimbursable and fixed-price type contracts.

59) The project charter describes the authority of the PM.

60) The WBS puts greater focus on the deliverables than the activities.

61) The Estimate Activity Resource process determines what and how many resources
    will be used.

62) Manual Forecasting of cost for the remaining work is generally the best means
    of generating an accurate forecast (p.220).

63) Risk transference nearly always involves payment of a premium to the party taking
    on the risk. Examples are use of performance bonds, warranties, fixed price
    contracts.

64) Decision trees are to be used when the uncertainty and unknowns exists regarding
    future scenarios and their outcomes.
    Not to be used when the future scenarios are known.

65) A tornado diagram is useful for comparing the relative importance of variables
    that have a high degree of uncertainty to those that are more stable.
    --> Useful for sensitivity analysis for Quantitative Risk analysing.

66) When a project is run under contract, the contractual provision are considered
    constrains to the project as they limiting factors.

67) The importance for the planning responses to the risk are usually set by the 
    organization.

68) Resource levelling can often cause the original critical path to change.

69) The difference between the early start and the late and early start is called 
    the Total Float.

70) The comprehensive summary activity that is displayed in bar chart reports is
    called Hammock activity.

71) Monte Carlo Analysis is a technique that computes or iterates the project cost
    or project schedule many times using input values selected at random from
    probability distributions of possible cost or durations, to calculate a distribution
    of possible total project costs or completion dates.


72) Configuration Status Accounting: Check p.97

73) Program Evaluation Review Technique (PERT):
        - Triangular dist: (Pessimistic + Most Likely + Optimistic)/3
        - Beta distribution: (Pessimistic + (Most Likely * 4) + Optimistic)/6

74) Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM) estimate is given in the beginning of a project.
    It is defined as -25% / + 75% of the estimated cost.

75) Process Analysis is a technique of Quality Assurance that relates root cause 
    analysis and is used to identify a problem, discover the cause and develop
    preventive actions.

76) Every time a team member joins or leave the team, the Staffing Management Plan
    must be updated.

77) Fast Tracking: To run tasks parallely when they supposed to be consecutive.
    Crashing: Adding more resources to shorten the schedule.
    Resource Levelling: ??

78) Resource calendar indicates when resources are available for the project.

79) The team role, Responsibility, authority and competency are documented in the 
    Human Resource Plan.

80) The project management Information is an Enterprise Environmental Factor.

81) Key milestones are an output of the define Activity phase.

82) Fund limit reconciliation: 
    The expenditure of funds is frequently reconciled w/ the disbursement of funds.
    --> Need the scheduling of work to be adjusted to smooth
    or regulate those expenditures.
    --> Instead of spending much at once, it would be spending multiple time but less.

83) Resource Assignment is NOT part of the WBS dictionary.
    WBS dictionary includes:
        - List of schedule milestones
        - Agreement information
        - Code of account identifier
        NOT the Resource Assignment.

84) Mandatory dependencies == HARD logic

85) Inspection: keeping error out of the customer.
    Prevention: keeping error out of the process.

86) Project boundary: a point in time where the project (or phase) is authorized to 
    its completion.

87) Constraints are factors that can limit the project management team's option.

88) Project Performance Appraisal deals with how each team member is performing work
    rather than how well is the team is working together.

89) Contingency reserves are used to deal w/ Anticipated but not certain events.

90) CPI = EV / AC
    SPI = EV / 

91) Control Thresholds are variance thresholds for cost or other indicators.
    --> Indicate the agreed amount of variation allowed.

92) Make or buy analysis should include both Direct and Indirect costs.

93) The Project Scope Management is primarily concerned w/ defining and controlling 
    what is and is not cincluded in the project.

94) Bottom-up estimating: Activities are broken down into smalled components for
    estimation. These smaller estimations are then summed up to obtain the cost 
    estimate.

95) Organizational Breakdown Structure: 
    A hierarchical organized depiction of the project organization arranged so as
    to relate the work packages to performing Organizational units

96) Management reserves are included in the project's total funds but they are not
    included in the project's cost performance baseline.

97) Backward pass: Calculation of late finish and late entry for uncompleted activities

98) Proposal requirement == Source Selection Criteria.

99) Demming's model => PDCA (Plan Do Check Act)

100) Perform Quantitative Risk Analysis could use Decision Tree Diagram.
    The decision nodes are also called Decision Points. (p.339)

101) The project charter normally includes:
        - Summary milestones
        - Business needs
        - Understanding of customer's need
        - other high level items


102) Continuous process improvement reduces Waste and non-value added activities,
     which allows processes to operate at increased level of efficiency and effectiveness.

103) Detail milestone list is created as an output of the Define Activities process.

104) Critical Chain Method: Schedule Network Analysis technique that accounts for 
     limited resources.

105) The To-Complete Performance Index (TCPI) indicates the required cost 
     performance in order to complete the project on budget.

106) Performance reporting is a tool of the "Manage Communication" process.

107) Risk Diagram techniques:
        - Influence diagram
        - Cause and Effect diagram
        - System flowcharts

108) The cost of quality principle includes the cost of ensuring conformance to 
     requirement.

109) A control chart shows the stability of a process over time.

110) Process analysis include Root cause analysis.

111) Earn Value Analysis is used as a trend analysis technique for monitoring
     over project performance.

112) EV data analysis can be represented by both S-curve and tabular format.

113) Inputs of "determine the budget": 
        - Actvity cost etimates
        - Basis of assumptions

114) Crossing thresholds triggers actions.

115) Qualitative Risk Analysis examines the Risks from the risk register and analyse
     its probability of occurrence and the impact it would have on the project 
     deliverables if it did occur.
     It ranks risks for future action or analysis by evaluating their probability of
     occurrence and impact.

116) The development of the requirements begins w/ an analysis of the information
     in the project charter and the stakeholders register.

117) Risk Management Plan includes: 
        - Roles and Responsibilities
        - Budgeting
        - Methodology
        - NO Template

118) The nominal group technique enhances brainstorming w/ a voting process.

119) Reserve Analysis: Done in estimate cost.

120) Expected Monetary Value (EMV) analysis is a statistical concept that calculates
     the average outcome when the future includes scenarios that may or may not 
     happen.
     Opportunities: EMV > 0
     Risk: EMV < 0

121) At expected rate:
        Estimate At Completion (EAT) = Actual Cost (AC) + Budget At Completion (BAC)
                                       - Earn Value (EV)



TODO:
    - Check question 13, 26, 24, 27
    - Study in more detail the Project Time Management and the different techniques
      of improving the schedule.
    - Study in more detail the Project Quality Management.
    - Study in more detail the configuration tools.
    - Find out the difference between formal and informal communication.
    - Study some chart examples.
    - Check p.339 (Risk Management)



    

    - Check question 38, 41
